You've cleaned your results,
all the tasks that you want a user to do.
We know which ones are the most
important to users, the top third or so.
You'll be able to see the sudden drop-off.
So now we need to organize around these,
right?
In our application, and actually in our
applications that can be quite tricky.
I find that a lot of applications
don't put as much attention into their
information architecture and navigation
as more traditional websites do.
And so you have to be very careful and
consider how you structure and
how you place information.
So a classic example is, in a lot of apps,
the settings section is where
functionality goes to die,
it just gets filled up
with all kinds of crap.
So there's lot of thought
that needs to go into that.
And a lot of thought needs to
be done around things like your
top-level navigation in particular,
those immediately available
options that are available.
And that's because if people start off
right, they get that first click correct,
then they're much more likely to be
able to navigate to the feature or
piece of functionality they need.
So spend a bit of time making sure
that those top tasks are instantly in
people's faces and visible.
So there are all kinds of ways of
working on information architecture and
I'll go into this in a lot more
detail in the course on research and
testing so I will skim over it now.
But certainly look at things
like using Open Card Sorting and
Closed Card Sorting when
it comes to organizing and
structuring the information
on your website.
You also consider Tree Testing as well.
There are some great tools out
there that make it really easy if
you've never seen Tree Testing
before then, sorry,
Card Sorting before is basically you
just ask users to take those top tasks,
those main things people want to do and
group them in ways that
make sense to them, right?
So instead of just organizing
all your features and
functionality in ways that make sense
to you, we get users to do that and
they kind of group it together in
a way that resonates with them.
And you can, there's some great tools
out there, I tend to use one called
UX metrics to do this kind of work cuz it
enables you to do card sorting remotely.
I would encourage you
to checkout my course
that covers this kind of
thing in a lot more detail.
But yeah, you can go in and
you can easily create a new card sort and
you can basically give it a name,
you give it all the tasks that
you wanna add into it,
that people are organizing.
And then they organize them in
whatever way makes sense to them,
it only takes a few minutes to set up,
it's super easy to do.
And then you'll get a lot of results back.
And you can basically review where people
have assigned cards what they work,
what they grouped them in, where have
they placed them, and that very broadly.
And this is a massive oversimplification
can be used as the basis for
your top-level navigation.
Again, go check out the other course
to get into this in a lot more detail.
So, and actually increasingly
I'm using Chat GPT to
help me do look at these results and
organize them.
Because you'll find a lot of,
obviously if people can organize things
into any buckets that make sense to
them everybody's gonna word those
buckets in slightly different ways.
One person might call it settings,
another one might call it admin,
or slightly different wording and
different stuff like that.
So Chat GPT is really good at helping
you find conceptually similar groups and
combining those together rather than
you having to go manually through and
find things that are really similar.
It can also total up any
votes from combined groups,
which means that you can still see
which groups are the most popular.
And you can even give it
constraints like only allow me
to only have seven sections as
a maximum or something like that.
And yeah, you can assign different
functions then automatically to different
groups, all using Chat GPT.
I'll talk this all through in a lot
more detail in the other course.
But it's that basis of
identify your top tasks,
organize things around those top tasks
basically makes a huge difference.
Just a little bit of advice when
you're creating your apps and
organizing things fewer
options are better.
We can only hold about four
things in our short-term memory,
which sucks but that's humans for you.
And that's why your
credit card has 16 digit
numbers split into four groups of four.
So as anytime you have
more than four sections,
you're making people think harder and
people don't like thinking.
If you've got to have
more than four options,
maybe consider grouping those
different options together.
So, for example, it would be common
to have your kinda main navigation,
which would be a four
primary sections in your app.
But also have secondary navigation
that has things like contact,
there are settings, admin,
that kind of thing in it.
So you're kinda grouping things.
Keep your label short whenever possible,
one or two words maximum.
Be very careful to ensure that there's
no ambiguity in the wordings being used.
So classic examples of this is
the use of jargon, where people don't
know what the word is talking about,
but also even real words sometimes.
The example I give on the user research
and testing course is I worked once on
a university website, trying to attract
undergraduates to attend the university.
And we did some usability testing
where we asked them to go and
find certain course information for,
and how to apply and things like that.
And as we ran the test, on several of the
tests, we found that these undergraduates
looking for course information ended
up in the alumni section, right?
And after it happened,
I think the second or
third time I said to the person,
why are you in alumni, right?
And the answer I got back was I didn't
know what the word alumni meant.
So I thought maybe what I'm looking for
might be in there.
So actually words can be,
you can send people off on
completely the wrong route,
so avoid ambiguity.
Also, options that are too similar
to one another can be a big problem.
So for example sometimes you go on
a website where it has sectors and
industries, well, hang on a minute.
What's the difference between those two,
and so you're left unsure of which to
go into look for case studies or
whatever it is you're after.
And also don't throw too many clicks.
So there's this kind of thing that goes
round that users don't like to click.
And that the research doesn't
really support that anymore.
It certainly was a thing for a long, long
time back in the the pre-broadband days
where if you clicked,
you had to wait ten minutes.
But these days users are pretty
happy clicking their way around, and
so as long as they feel that they're
going in the right direction,
you don't have a huge problem.
So once you've got your top-level
navigation in place, built around your top
tasks, there'll be a whole load of
other tasks that people wanna do.
And you're like, well,
how do they fit into all of this as well?
So what I then tend to do is take those
secondary tasks that somebody might wanna
do on the website and
see whether they fit in with
the navigation I've just made up, right?
Based on the top task analysis.
So this is where I tend
to do a closed card sort.
And a closed card sort is
very similar to an open card
sort except that the sections
that I created are already there.
And all people have got to do is put
those into the different buckets,
whichever bucket they
feel is most appropriate.
But notice I've added an extra
bucket called I'm not sure.
So that if people drop in stuff
into the not sure section,
they've got somewhere to put it if they
don't know what to do with it, right?
So this way you can now find out
whether all those tiny tasks or
those little secondary things
fit into your navigation or not.
Again, it's really,
really simple to set up.
You click Create a Closed Card, so
you add all the groups of
your top-level navigation in.
So that people can organize into that and
then you just add all of your tasks in and
people can just drag them
around as they want to.
But then what you'll end up with is you'll
be able to see where all the cards have
been assigned, which groups are in and
what you'll do is you'll get an agreement
score where it tells you how many people
agree that it should be in that section.
So this card for example, at the top
there have life insurance, right?
Has been put in benefits,
227 times 99% of people
putting it in benefits,
if you get that kind of
result that's golden,
that's just wonderful, right?
So basically, most of the time,
you're just assigning things
to the top group, right?
The group where it fits.
But sometimes you'll get low
agreement scores, right?
So this one's got
an agreement score of 40%.
And what's particularly interesting
about this one is 92 times it's been
put in working at UF and
87 times it's been put into contacts.
So basically, both of those
sections are pretty much equal, so
they could be an either of those, right?
So now what do you do?
You're kinda stuck as to where to put it.
Well, it's not that big a deal,
you just cross a link from one
to the other, issue solved.
But also you'll get some stuff like this
one that's been put into not sure, right?
That's a bit worrying.
Most people have put it into not sure,
that's worrying, right?
No, not really.
Because if you look at it,
94 people have put it into not sure,
88 have put it into working at UF,
which means that if there
was no not sure category,
which there isn't on a live website,
right?
Most people would have settled for
go looking in working in UF.
So you could probably in that case
just put it into working in UF and
you'll be fine, yeah.
>> Is that percentage just for
the first line?
>> Yeah, right, so
it's saying 41% have put it in,
I'm not sure, out of all the votes.
>> It's curious that they don't now
the percentages for the other ones.
>> It's mainly the top one you care about.
I think it's a great example of you
probably, if you put percentages for
all of them it would have
just been a bit overwhelming.
I actually I quite liked the fact that it
doesn't makes it cleaner personally but,
so basically,
assign cards in the not sure to whatever
the next highest winner is in most cases.
I mean, none of this is an exact
science when you're working on
information architecture.
A lot of the time, you just have to
make a judgment call about what to do,
what feels right.
But push comes to shove,
my general rule of thumb is,
if something has got an agreement score
of over about 50% I don't panic too much.
And most not sure options are added
to the second most common group.
And also you can do a thing called
tree testing just to double
check any of this afterwards later.
Sometimes if you've got an app
that's particularly complicated,
you might have even lower
sections involved in it.
So basically my rule of thumb
is if there's more than about
what have I done there?
Yeah, if there's more than about seven-ish
tasks within any particular section,
I'll probably look at dividing
it into sub-sections.
So that you're not overwhelming people
with a big long list of tasks they're
doing at any one time, and there's
a couple of options for dealing with that.
You could do more card
sorting if you wanted to but
most of the time I just
make an educated guess and
I won't read this whole thing but
I even get Chat GPT to help me with that.
And I ask it to access
an information architecture and
make some suggestions for me.
You'll get the slide deck, you can pump
it in yourself and see what happens.
But it's pretty good Chat GPT is
pretty good at organizing things that
are conceptually similar and labeling
those things is good with language.
It's a large language model.
So I don't always use it as it is but
it's useful.